README.md, before:

## Carmel finite-state toolkit - J. Graehl

 (carmel includes EM and gibbs-sampled (pseudo-Bayesian) training)

 (see `carmel/LICENSE` - free for research/non-commercial)

 (see `carmel/README` and `carmel/carmel-tutorial`).

## Building from source

```
cd carmel; make -j 4 install BOOST_SUFFIX=-mt INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local
# BOOST_SUFFIX= depends on how your boost libraries are installed - ls /usr/lib/libboost*.so
```

(prerequisites: GNU Make (3.8) C++ compiler (GCC 5, clang 3.7, or
visual studio 2015 will do) and [Boost](http://boost.org), which you
probably already have on your linux system; for Mac, you can get them
from [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/). For windows: MSVC2015 should work;
you can also use cygwin or mingw.

### `make` options

If your system doesn't support static linking, `make NOSTATIC=1`

If you're trying to modify or troubleshoot the build, take a look at
`graehl/shared/graehl.mk` as well as `carmel/Makefile`; you shouldn't need to
manually run `make depend`.

## Subdirectories

* `carmel`: finite state transducer toolkit with EM and gibbs-sampled
  (pseudo-Bayesian) training

* `forest-em`: derivation forests EM and gibbs (dirichlet prior bayesian) training

* `graehl/shared`: utility C++/Make libraries used by carmel and forest-em

* `gextract`: some python bayesian syntax MT rule inference

* `sblm`: some simple pcfg (e.g. penn treebank parses, but preferably binarized)

* `clm`: some class-based LM feature? I forget.

* `cipher`: some word-class discovery and unsupervised decoding of simple
probabilistic substitution cipher (uses carmel, but look to the tutorial in
carmel/ first)

* `util`: misc shell/perl scripts

Commit message:

- install added via cmake  - README build instructions modified

README.md, after:

## Carmel finite-state toolkit - J. Graehl

 (carmel includes EM and gibbs-sampled (pseudo-Bayesian) training)

 (see `carmel/LICENSE` - free for research/non-commercial)

 (see `carmel/README` and `carmel/carmel-tutorial`).

## Building from source

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
make install
```
optional cmake parameters:
 - -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/custom/install/path
 - -DBOOST_ROOT=/path/to/boost (if it is not installed in standard location)
 - -DOPENFST_ROOT=/path/to/openfst (if desired, and it is not installed in standard location)

prerequisites: 
 - cmake 3.1 or higher
 - a C++11 compiler
 - Boost. Tested on versions between 1.53 and 1.59, but others should work, too 
 - Optionally, openfst (http://www.openfst.org)

## Subdirectories

* `carmel`: finite state transducer toolkit with EM and gibbs-sampled
  (pseudo-Bayesian) training

* `forest-em`: derivation forests EM and gibbs (dirichlet prior bayesian) training

* `graehl/shared`: utility C++/Make libraries used by carmel and forest-em

* `gextract`: some python bayesian syntax MT rule inference

* `sblm`: some simple pcfg (e.g. penn treebank parses, but preferably binarized)

* `clm`: some class-based LM feature? I forget.

* `cipher`: some word-class discovery and unsupervised decoding of simple
probabilistic substitution cipher (uses carmel, but look to the tutorial in
carmel/ first)

* `util`: misc shell/perl scripts
